Add style guide (#3300)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/best-practices/how-we-style/0-how-we-style-our-dbt-projects.md

---
title: How we style our dbt projects
id: 0-how-we-style-our-dbt-projects
---

## Why does style matter?

> Style might seem like a trivial, surface-level issue, but in fact it's a deeply material aspect of a well-built project. Consistent, clear style enhances readability, which in turn makes it easier to understand and maintain your project. Highly readable code will make it easier for you to build clear mental models of your project, which will make it easier for you to debug and extend your project. It's not just a favor to yourself though, equally importantly, it makes it easier for others to understand and contribute to your project, essential for peer collaboration, open source work, and onboarding new team members.

Reviewer: Added a little variety to some of the adjectives to enhance the reading experience of the opening section. Let me know what you think
```suggestion
Style might seem like a trivial, surface-level issue, but it's a deeply material aspect of a well-built project. A consistent, clear style enhances readability and makes your project easier to understand and maintain. Highly readable code helps build clear mental models making it easier to debug and extend your project. It's not just a favor to yourself, though; equally importantly, it makes it effortless for others to understand and contribute to your project, which is essential for peer collaboration, open-source work, and onboarding new team members.
```

## What's important about style?

There are two crucial tenets of code style:

- Clarity
- Consistency

> Style your code in such a way that you can read your code quickly and understand it. It's also important to consider code review and git diffs. If you're making a change to a model, you want reviewers to be able to see just the material changes your making clearly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Style your code in such a way that you can read your code quickly and understand it. It's also important to consider code review and git diffs. If you're making a change to a model, you want reviewers to be able to see just the material changes you're making clearly.
```

> Style your code in such a way that you can read your code quickly and understand it. It's also important to consider code review and git diffs. If you're making a change to a model, you want reviewers to be able to see just the material changes your making clearly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Style your code in such a way that you can quickly read and understand it. It's also important to consider code review and git diffs. If you're making a change to a model, you want reviewers to see just the material changes you're making clearly.
```

> Once you've established a clear style, stay consistent. This is the most important thing. Everybody on your team needs to have a unified style, which is why having a style guide is so crucial. If you're writing a model, you should be able to look at other models in the project that your teammates have written and read the same style. If you're writing a macro or a test, you should see the same style as your models. Consistency is key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've established a clear style, stay consistent. This is the most important thing. Everybody on your team needs to have a unified style, which is why having a style guide is so crucial. If you're writing a model, you should be able to look at other models in the project that your teammates have written and read in the same style. If you're writing a macro or a test, you should see the same style as your models. Consistency is key.
```

## How should I style?

> You should style the project in the way you and your teammates or collaborators agree on. The most important thing is that you have a style guide and that you stick to it. This guide is just a suggestion to get you started and to give you a sense of what a style guide might look like. It covers various areas you may want to consider, with suggested rules. It emphasizes lots of whitespace, clarity, clear naming, and comments. We belive one of the strengths of SQL is that it reads like English, so we lean into that declarative nature throughout our projects. Even within dbt Labs though, there are differing opinions on how to style, even a small but passionate contigent of leading comma enthusiasts! So again, the important thing is not to use to follow this style guide, is to make _your_ style guide and follow it.

Reviewer 2: > a small but passionate contigent of leading comma enthusiasts

Not sure if "contigent" is a typo for another word

Reviewer 2: > So again, the important thing is not ~~to use~~ to follow this style guide, **it's** to make _your_ style guide and follow it.

> You should style the project in the way you and your teammates or collaborators agree on. The most important thing is that you have a style guide and that you stick to it. This guide is just a suggestion to get you started and to give you a sense of what a style guide might look like. It covers various areas you may want to consider, with suggested rules. It emphasizes lots of whitespace, clarity, clear naming, and comments. We belive one of the strengths of SQL is that it reads like English, so we lean into that declarative nature throughout our projects. Even within dbt Labs though, there are differing opinions on how to style, even a small but passionate contingent of leading comma enthusiasts! So again, the important thing is not to follow this style guide, it's to make _your_ style guide and follow it. Lastly, be sure to include rules, tools, _and_ examples in your style guide to make it as easy as possible for your team to follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should style the project in a way you and your teammates or collaborators agree on. The most important thing is that you have a style guide and stick to it. This guide is just a suggestion to get you started and to give you a sense of what a style guide might look like. It covers various areas you may want to consider, with suggested rules. It emphasizes lots of whitespace, clarity, clear naming, and comments. 
```

## How should I style?

You should style the project in the way you and your teammates or collaborators agree on. The most important thing is that you have a style guide and that you stick to it. This guide is just a suggestion to get you started and to give you a sense of what a style guide might look like. It covers various areas you may want to consider, with suggested rules. It emphasizes lots of whitespace, clarity, clear naming, and comments. We belive one of the strengths of SQL is that it reads like English, so we lean into that declarative nature throughout our projects. Even within dbt Labs though, there are differing opinions on how to style, even a small but passionate contingent of leading comma enthusiasts! So again, the important thing is not to follow this style guide, it's to make _your_ style guide and follow it. Lastly, be sure to include rules, tools, _and_ examples in your style guide to make it as easy as possible for your team to follow.

> 

Reviewer: Breaking up a lengthy section into parts
```suggestion
We believe one of the strengths of SQL is that it reads like English, so we lean into that declarative nature throughout our projects. Even within dbt Labs, though, there are differing opinions on how to style, even a small but passionate contingent of leading comma enthusiasts! Again, the important thing is not to follow this style guide; it's to make _your_ style guide and follow it. Lastly, be sure to include rules, tools, _and_ examples in your style guide to make it as easy as possible for your team to follow.
```
